# Source separation via SVD-free rank minimization in the hierarchical semi-separable representation


## DESCRIPTION 

This package contains a MATLAB implementation of a 2-D over/under
blended marine acquisition for the source separation application. The
source separation (or deblending) algorithm is based on a SVD-free
rank minimization scheme in the hierarchical semi-separable (HSS)
representation. As of July 2016, the code has been updated to run in
parallel mode.


## ON-LINE DOCUMENTATION
   
https://www.slim.eos.ubc.ca/SoftwareDemos/applications/Acquisition/SourceSeparationLowRankHSS


## COPYRIGHT
   
You may use this code only under the conditions and terms of the
license contained in the files LICENSE or COPYING provided with this
source code. If you do not agree to these terms you may not use this
software.


## PREREQUISITES
   
All prerequisites, except for MATLAB, are provided in the software
release repositories and should be installed as necessary before using
any of SINBAD's software.


## INSTALLATION

### Software in SLIM-release-comp repository

This application requires installation of extra software from
SLIM-release-comp repository.

### Software in SLIM-release-apps (this) repository

Follow the instructions in the INSTALLATION file (located in the home
directory of this software repository) to install necessary
components.


## DOCUMENTATION 
   
Documentation and examples in .html format are included in the ./doc
directory.


## RUNNING
   
Start matlab from this directory or run startup.m to set the correct
paths. The scripts that produced the examples can be found in
./examples.

### Preparing shell environment
   
You must setup your shell environment according to the steps listed in
the README located in home directory of the software release.

### Downloading data
    
To run the examples, first download the data from
ftp://ftp.slim.gatech.edu/data/SoftwareRelease/Acquisition/SourceSeparationLowRankHSS/Original,
by typing `scons' in the ./data directory

### Running applications/demos
    
Specific instructions for the example can be found in the README.md
file in the corresponding subdirectory.

Pre-run results can be downloaded from
ftp://ftp.slim.gatech.edu/data/SoftwareRelease/Acquisition/SourceSeparationLowRankHSS/Results,
by typing `scons' in the ./results directory

#### Data adaptation
    
To run the algorithm on your own data, see the instructions in the
README.md file in the ./examples directory.


## SUPPORT
  
You may contact developers of SINBAD software by means of:

### GitHub issue tracker

Submit issue at [SLIM-release-apps issues](https://github.com/SINBADconsortium/SLIM-release-apps/issues).

### Direct mail
  
Contact [SLIM administrator](mailto:softadmin@slimweb.eos.ubc.ca) with
any questions related to the SINBAD software release.


## REFERENCES

[1] Rajiv Kumar, Haneet Wason, and Felix J. Herrmann [2015]. "Source
separation for simultaneous towed-streamer marine acquisition --- a
compressed sensing approach", Geophysics, vol. 80, pp. WD73-WD88.
Available at
https://www.slim.eos.ubc.ca/content/source-separation-simultaneous-towed-streamer-marine-acquisition-â€“-compressed-sensing-approa.

[2] Haneet Wason, Rajiv Kumar, Aleksandr Y. Aravkin, and Felix
J. Herrmann [2014]. "Source separation via SVD-free rank minimization
in the hierarchical semi-separable representation", SEG Technical
Program Expanded Abstracts, pp. 120-126. Available at
https://www.slim.eos.ubc.ca/content/source-separation-svd-free-rank-minimization-hierarchical-semi-separable-representation.

[3] Aleksandr Y. Aravkin, Rajiv Kumar, Hassan Mansour, Ben Recht, and
Felix J. Herrmann [2014]. "Fast methods for denoising matrix
completion formulations, with application to robust seismic data
interpolation", SIAM Journal on Scientific Computing (SISC), vol. 36,
pp. S237-S266. Available at
https://www.slim.eos.ubc.ca/content/fast-methods-denoising-matrix-completion-formulations-applications-robust-seismic-data-inter.

[4] Rajiv Kumar, Hassan Mansour, Aleksandr Y. Aravkin, and Felix
J. Herrmann [2013]. "Reconstruction of seismic wavefields via low-rank
matrix factorization in the hierarchical-separable matrix
representation", SEG Technical Program Expanded Abstracts,
pp. 3628-3633. Available at
https://www.slim.eos.ubc.ca/content/reconstruction-seismic-wavefields-low-rank-matrix-factorization-hierarchical-separable-matri

