# 2D ocean-bottom marine acquisition via jittered sampling


## DESCRIPTION

This package is an application of a 2D time-jittered (or blended)
marine acquisition scheme, and a deblending algorithm based on sparse
inversion (via L1 minimization).


## ON-LINE DOCUMENTATION

https://www.slim.eos.ubc.ca/SoftwareDemos/applications/Acquisition/2DTimeJitteredOBS


## COPYRIGHT

You may use this code only under the conditions and terms of the
license contained in the file LICENSE or COPYING.txt provided with
this source code. If you do not agree to these terms you may not use
this software.


## PREREQUISITES

All prerequisites, except for MATLAB, are provided with the software
release and should be installed before using any of SINBAD's software.


##  INSTALLATION

###  Software in SLIM-release-comp repository

This application requires installation of extra software from
SLIM-release-comp repository.

###  Software in SLIM-release-apps (this) repository

Follow the instructions in the INSTALLATION file (located in the home
directory of this software repository) to install necessary
components.


## DOCUMENTATION

Documentation and examples in .html format are included in the ./doc directory.


## RUNNING

Start matlab from this directory or run startup.m to set the correct
paths. The scripts that produced the examples can be found in
./examples/TimeJitAcq_1boat and ./examples/TimeJitAcq_2boats
subdirectories.

1. To run the examples, first download the data from
ftp://ftp.slim.gatech.edu/data/SoftwareRelease/Common/GulfOfSuez by typing
`scons' in the ./data directory

2. Specific instructions for each example can be found in the file README.txt in the corresponding subdirectories.

3. Pre-run results can be downloaded from
ftp://ftp.slim.gatech.edu/data/SoftwareRelease/Acquisition/results by
typing `scons' in the ./results directory

4. To run the algorithm on your own data, see the file
README_templates.txt and the template.m files in the ./scripts
directory.


## SUPPORT

You may contact developers of SINBAD software by means of:

### GitHub issue tracker

Submit issue at [SLIM-release-apps issues](https://github.com/SINBADconsortium/SLIM-release-apps/issues).

###  Direct mail

Contact [SLIM administrator](mailto:softadmin@slimweb.eos.ubc.ca) with
any questions related to the SINBAD software release.


## REFERENCES
    
[1] Haneet Wason, and Felix J. Herrmann [2013]. "Time-jittered ocean
bottom seismic acquisition." SEG Technical Program Expanded Abstracts,
pp. 1-6. Available at
https://www.slim.eos.ubc.ca/content/time-jittered-ocean-bottom-seismic-acquisition.

[2] Haneet Wason, and Felix J. Herrmann [2013]. "Ocean bottom seismic
acquisition via jittered sampling." Presented at the 75th EAGE
Conference and Exhibition, doi: 10.3997/2214-4609.20130379. Available
at
https://www.slim.eos.ubc.ca/content/ocean-bottom-seismic-acquisition-jittered-sampling-0.

[3] Hassan Mansour, Haneet Wason, Tim T.Y. Lin, and Felix J. Herrmann
[2012]. "Randomized marine acquisition with compressive sampling
matrices." Geophysical Prospecting, vol. 60, pp. 648-662. Available at
https://www.slim.eos.ubc.ca/content/randomized-marine-acquisition-compressive-sampling-matrices.
    

## NOTE: 

As of October 2012, a correction has been made in the setup
of the time-jittered marine acquisition scheme: speed of the source
vessel is set to the speed during a realistic acquisition scenario,
and is kept constant while the source vessel fires at jittered
instances in time. Hence, the entire setup is in fact a pragmatic
scenario. This was not the case in reference [3], however, the
principles of compressed sensing and the proposed ideas in [3] still
apply after making the correction (see the references cited in [1] and
[2]).

